docs(date-picker): usage content updates (#1209)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/components/date-picker/usage.mdx

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Overview</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Live demo</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Format</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Content</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Universal behaviors</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Simple date input</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Calendar pickers</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Time picker</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Related</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Feedback</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

## Overview

> Pickers are used to display past, present, or future dates or times. The kind of date (exact, approximate, memorable) you are requesting from the user will determine which picker is best to use. All picker's format can be customized depending on location or need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pickers are used to display past, present, or future dates or times. The kind of date (exact, approximate, memorable) you are requesting from the user will determine which picker is best to use. Each picker's format can be customized depending on location or need.
```

maybe "each" or "every"?

  </ComponentDemo>

## Format

### Anatomy of date pickers

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

![Date picker anatomy](images/date-picker-anatomy.png)

<Caption>
  Anatomy of a simple date input (top) and single date calendar picker (bottom).
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

1. **Label**: Instructs the user what to do with the control.
2. **Date field**: A text input field where the user can manually type in the date.
3. **Icon**: `calendar` icon indicates the calendar menu is available.
4. **Calendar**: The menu where a date may be selected.
5. **Month and year controls**: Allows the user to navigate through past and future time frames.
6. **Previous and next month controls**: Allows the user to move forward or backward one month at a time.

> 7. **Day**: Days in the month.

Author: These are called "day" in the code so I'm wondering if we should just leave is as "day" or if it doesn't matter so much.

### Alignment

By default, the pickers have fixed widths. If you are placing the picker inline with other inputs, such as in form, then the widths can be adjusted to match the other inputs. The picker can either increase or decrease in width as needed. If the size is adjusted know that pickers have minimum widths, the date content should never horizontal scroll or overflow.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Alignment example](images/date-picker-alignment-01.png)

</Column>
</Row>

The calendar itself will always remain a fixed width and is not adjustable. It should always be aligned to the left edge of its assigned text field.

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

![Alignment example](images/date-picker-alignment-02.png)

</Column>
</Row>

## Content

### Main elements

#### Label

- Both date and time pickers must be accompanied with labels.
- The labels should be clear and descriptive.
- Range inputs should be being properly labeled with a start and end label.

#### Date format

- The date format can be displayed differently depending on your location. For example, some countries use month/day/year while other use day/month/year.

> - When using a simple date input include the date format in parentheses inline with the label or as helper text below the label.

Author: We normally call it helper text not help text. This is probably something we should decide on can up date everywhere. (in code and kit as well as documentation).

> - When using a simple date input include the date format in parentheses inline with the label or as helper text below the label.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I know we currently have a mix. @jeanservaas and I talked about this and we both prefer help text. Traditionally help text has been something delivered via a different mechanism, such as a help file, but the lines are blurred now as to where text in the UI stops and anything else begins. I've been working this in with each update, but it sounds like we need a blanket update.

- Only including the date format as placeholder text inside the field is problematic because it will disappear once the user begins typing.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Alignment example](images/date-format-placement.png)

</Column>
</Row>

#### Time format

- Both the 12-hour and 24-hour time systems are allowed.
- If using the 12-hour it must be accommodated with an AM/PM selection.
- Use uppercase letters and no periods for the abbreviations AM and PM.
- Specific times should specify a timezone.

### Further guidance

For further content guidance, see Carbon’s [content guidelines](https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/guidelines/content/general).

## Universal behaviors

The behaviors listed in this section are universal across all of the types. For behaviors that are unique to each type, see the sections below.

### States

#### Validation

Invalid fields should be clearly marked. In pickers with more than one field, the invalid state should only be set on the individual factor that is triggering the error so the user can clearly understand which to address.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Validation example](images/date-picker-validation.png)

</Column>
</Row>

> ### Localization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Internationalization
```

> Localization, sometimes referred to as internationalization, refers to software adapting to different languages, regional peculiarities and technical requirements of a target locale without additional code changes. This means that if the location is known then formatting of a date or time can automatically change to the acceptable local format. You should always try and design for localization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Internationalization, also referred to as globalization, refers to software adapting to different languages, regional peculiarities, and technical requirements of a target locale without additional code changes. This means that if the location is known, then formatting of a date or time can automatically change to the acceptable local format. You should always try to design for internationalization.
```

Author: @janchild So we're not using the term "localized" at all? I think I use it a couple of times elsewhere in the documentation. Should I change it to "internationalized" every where?

Author: Never mind, read your initial comment, got it.

Reviewer 2: @aagonzales, let's check with @joshblack to make sure we're aligned on terminology. 

Josh, are you using this term also? I believe we could use internationalized or globalized in this kind of situation. 

For context, here is my earlier note:
I based the edit in the internationalization/globalization section on the definitions here. https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-i18n. The differences are subtle. From what is explained here, internationalization/globalization is the design and development to prep for ease of localization, which is the adaptation that comes after the product has been built. I'd be fine with using the word globalization instead of internationalization if you'd prefer.

![Simple date input states](images/simple-date-input-states.png)

</Column>
</Row>

## Calendar pickers

Calendar pickers default to showing today's date when opened and only one month is shown at a time. Calendar pickers allow users to navigate through months and years however, they work best when used for recent or near future dates. If a user needs to input a far distant or future date consider having the calendar default open to a more convenient day.

Keep in mind that some users may find calendar pickers difficult to use. There should always be a simple way to enter dates in a text field when using calendar pickers.

#### Use for scheduling

Use a calendar picker when the user needs to know a date's relation to other days such as the day of the week it falls on or it's proximity to today. They are optimal for scheduling tasks.

### Types

#### Single date picker

In a single date picker a user has the option to either manually input a date in the text field or select one specific date from the menu calendar. It requires a day, month, and year to be selected.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Single date calendar picker](images/single-date-picker.png)

</Column>
</Row>

> 1. Today

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Today's date
```

2. Hover

> 3. Day in month

Author: Again in code its called "day" not "date"

> 3. Day in month

Reviewer 2: @aagonzales , I'm fine with day if it's day in the code. For this and the other instances.

> 4. Selected day

Author: Again they types of days not specific dates. It does sound weird but its technically what they are called. I'm not sure how much we should blur the line here versus keeping to strict code language.

#### Selecting a date

A date can be selected by:

- Manually entering a date in the text input field
- Clicking on a date in the calendar menu
- Navigating to a date by using the `Arrow` keys and then pressing `Enter`.

#### Next and previous month

A user can navigate between the months in a year by:

- Clicking on `chevron` icons at the top left and right of the calendar
- Using the `Arrow` keys to move through the into the next or previous month

#### Selecting a year

By default the current date and year will appear in the calendar. To navigate to another year the user can do one of the following:

- Manually typing in the year in the date text field.
- Clicking on the up and down arrows that appear when you focus or hover on the year input in the calendar.
- Selecting then typing into the year input.

#### Closing the calendar

The calendar can be closed in one of the following ways:

- Selecting a single date or the end date in a range (will automatically close it)
- Clicking anywhere outside of calendar menu
- Removing focus from the picker
- Pressing `Esc`

#### Selecting a range

There are several ways in which a range can be selected:

> - Manually type the date for the start and end dates in the text field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Manually type the start and end dates in the text field.
```

> - Once the calendar is open the first date you click will be the start date and second date you click will be the end date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once the calendar is open the first date you click becomes the start date and second date you click becomes the end date.
```

- Navigating to the start date by using the `Arrow` keys and pressing `Enter`. Then continue using the `Arrow` keys to navigate to a second date and press `Enter` again.

#### Min and max dates

In order to constrain the possible selectable dates in a calendar, a min and max date may be set. Once set, only the dates that fall within the min/max range will be selectable with the dates outside of the range being disabled.

> Use min and max dates to help prevent user error. If a user cannot select dates in the past when scheduling the set a min date to today.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use min and max dates to help prevent user error. If a user cannot select dates in the past when scheduling, then set a min date to today.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Min and max date example](images/calendar-picker-min-max.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Caption>The dates before today are out of range and disabled. </Caption>

## Time picker

> Time pickers provide the user with a text field in which they can input hour and minutes. Additionally, they can be accompanied by an AM/PM and a time zone control styled as selects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Time pickers provide the user with a text field in which they can input the hour and minutes. Additionally, they can be accompanied by an AM/PM and a time zone control, both styled as selects.
```

> The time field format should include the hour and minutes, ie 11:30. It may be localized accommodate the 12hour or 24 hour format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The time field format should include the hour and minutes, for example 11:30. It may be localized accommodate the 12-hour or 24-hour format.
```

#### Use for scheduling

> Use the time picker when a specific time is need to be scheduled, such as planning a meeting time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the time picker when a specific time needs to be scheduled, such as planning a meeting time.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

![Time picker example](images/time-picker-example.png)

</Column>
</Row>

## Modifiers

### Light variant

Use the `light` prop modifier when placing date pickers on alternate backgrounds. The light prop will change the background color token of the inputs from `field-01` to `field-02`. This is frequently used in form modals or when on a tile.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Light prop example](images/date-picker-light-prop.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Caption>
  {" "}
  Both inputs are displayed in the white theme but the one on the right is using

>   the light prop on the alternate ui background.{" "}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the light prop on the alternate UI background.{" "}
```

</Caption>

## Related

#### Asking for relative times and dates

> Another common use-case not accounted for in the above pickers is setting a time or date relative to today or now, such as with a reminder. For example, setting a install to begin now, in one hour, or tonight. This type of picker can made by using the standard [select](link) component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another common use case not accounted for in the above pickers is setting a time or date relative to today or now, such as with a reminder. For example, setting an install to begin now, in one hour, or tonight. This type of picker can made by using the standard [select](link) component.
```
